So let's talk about
different kinds of tests.
So a lot of time people talk
about this testing pyramid.
And the idea of a testing pyramid
is that you have two axis,
you have execution time, and
you have number of tests, right?
And so what people are saying is that
primarily, you should have unit tests And
when the unit test really check,
is that they check whether your
code does what it's supposed to do.
To put it differently, it checks, when you
write your code, you have if statements
inside of it to make different decision
based on different circumstances, right?
Unit tests really are all about
checking the if statements, right,
that do right things happen
with the right input.
Functional tests, or
sometimes known as integration tests,
really bring multiple units together.
And there, you want to test not
necessarily whether individual pieces do
the right thing on their own, although
you can, but more you're interested in,
are the things compatible with each other?
Like if I, for example, had a DBSCAN,
which was the clustering algorithm,
I had to format my data in the correct
way for the DBSCAN to consume it,
and then DBSCAN produce something,
which I had to further format in
the way that my clustering
component could consume, right?
All these conversions,
are they making the right assumptions?
And this is the purpose of
an integration test, right?
You're not really questioning whether the
DBSCAN itself is doing the right thing,
you're just questioning of whether the
conversion code to get it to state what
DBSCAN can use, and then the conversion
code to get it back out so that I can use,
does that make sense, right?
And so, the functional test or
integration test really are more into
having a bunch of things together to
see if you get the correct output.
Now, it's not always that they're just
interested in communication, sometimes
you can have unit level tests as well, but
it's primarily what they're interested in.
Now typically, functional tests will be
slower because there's more code to run,
but also because your functional tests
are more likely to depend on I/O.
If you think about it,
modern CPUs are extremely fast,
it's really difficult to keep
a modern CPU busy with just code.
Usually when you have to wait for
things a long time, you're waiting for IO.
If we had our unit test where
we were talking to GitHub and
I was saying, look, that's a slow test,
it takes a third of a second,
the issue there wasn't that
the CPU wasn't fast enough,
the issue there was that we were
doing IO to the outside world.
And so, as you go up in this existing
pyramid, you're gonna discover that you're
gonna do more and more IO, and it's the IO
that makes the test fundamentally slow.
And finally, the scenario test,
or like the famous E2E test,
which is essentially the Playwright,
Playwright is gonna be even slower because
you are bringing up a full on browser,
you're pretending to be a user, right?
Every single click might be a round trip
to a server, which renders a new page,
which navigates to a new place and things
of that sort, so these tests as you go up,
becomes slower.
And this is why the recommendation
is that when you develop software,
you wanna focus on unit
tests on the bottom.
If for example,
I have a list of orders and
the list of orders are incorrectly
showing in the incorrect order,
chances are I've probably messed up
the sorting algorithm somewhere.
So there should be a function somewhere
in the code base that does the sorting
algorithm.
And I should be able to just invoke the
function as a unit test, rather than go
into an end-to-end test and try to order
a bunch of try to input a whole bunch of
orders through the UI, and then verify
that the output does the right thing.
That's way too high level for
this particular thing, right?
We're just trying to assert
that individual order forms
are in the correct order, so
we wanna make sure that our comparator
function does the right stuff, right?
So that's why you wanna
focus mostly on unit tests.
Now, this is kind of the ideal world,
doesn't mean that that's actually what
happens in real world, especially when
you have a legacy code base, right?
If you have a legacy codebase,
this will probably be inverted,
because when you have a legacy codebase,
about the only thing that you can
do is to do end-to-end testing.
And slowly over time you can go and
see if you can refactor things and
introduce your mocks into the system so
that you can carve out smaller and
smaller chunks for
unit testing, makes sense?
Question?
>> So do the functional integration
tests have the same testing harness, or
is there a way to test
a gateway like a database call?
If I mark the database I
don't get the actual result,
which is what I'm most concerned with.
>> Right, I think the kind of tooling you
use I think is orthogonal, for example,
you can use Playwright with Storybook.
So, because you're using Playwright,
is that an end-to-end test, or
because it's a storybook,
it's Integration test, right?
So like, to some degree,
these are not written in stone in terms of
what they are, it's more like
a guide to kind of talk about.
When you wanna test
something like a database,
there are a couple of strategies.
One is you can mark it out,
but the problem is,
maybe the communication you
mocked out is incorrect.
So the next thing you can do is you
can create a copy of your database and
locally and
low preloaded with local data, right?
That would be kind of more a trustworthy
thing because you're doing more
of an end-to-end test.
But by doing that now your system is
slow because you maybe can't execute
fast enough.
But it turns out if you wanna
do something with databases,
there's lots of object ORMs,
object relational mappers, right,
where instead of talking directly to
the database, you talk to an ORM,
which is a object-oriented
representation of the data.
And that naturally creates
a place where you can mock, so
then you have a choice of whether I
wanna talk directly to the database or
talk to the ORM, and
I can create mocks for them in that way.
The other thing you can do is you can
easily create like an in-memory database,
like SQL DB has an in-memory
version that you can get where you
can preload a data set that's useful for
testing, right?
Because there is a data set
that is kinda a production and
the production data usually is not
the ideal data for testing because there's
lots of boring stuff in there that
isn't really that interesting.
And for unit tests or for other kinds of
testing thing you want the corner cases,
and so you want a database filled with all
kinds of interesting corner cases, and
even the fact of understanding
the corner cases of interest.
In that kind of situation, you can split
it in two ways, you can say that you have
a well known database which was
prepopulated with these corner cases,
the problem is, how do you communicate
that to all your developers?
Or you can say like, no,
I'm gonna bring a brand new database, and
as part of my test, the setup is
responsible to write into the database and
set up the corner case
that you're interested in.
And I think the second one is more
interesting one where you are guaranteed
that every single test is basically
starting with a blank slate,
with nothing in a database.
And then through something like
a page object or some form of a DSL,
you describe what the database
should have that preloads it.
And now you have a system in a correct
state into in terms of what you wanna
test, and then you can go ahead and
apply your assertions,
you can poke at it to get the output
that you want out of the system.
How does this work?
And I think the way most people
do is they write code here, and
I intentionally made this box red because
that's where the bugs get put in, right?
So the software engineers write code,
and then they have some QA and they
expect that the QA will catch their bugs.
And then you hire some test engineers and
say,
why don't you automate all this stuff so
we don't have to do it all the time.
And so, for some reason,
when you first talk to people,
they always assume the testing
magic happens at this level.
They're like, get some magical software,
pay company some money or whatever and
this problem will go away, right?
And this is not the correct mental model,
this is,
you cannot fix the problem at this level.
And fundamentally, the reason we cannot
fix the problem is, I have this opinion
philosophy, I don't know what you wanna
call it, which is that the person who
creates a mess needs to be the person
who suffers the consequences, right?
If the two people are different,
nothing ever is gonna get better, right?
So if the developer is the one that's
creating a mess making the code untestable
and then the automation engineer
is suffering the consequences,
this isn't gonna get better, right?
You need to make sure that the software
engineer, not only is responsible for
writing the code, but
also is responsible for writing the test.
And then they see the consequences
to their actions, and
now they have a closed loop and
immediately they can learn and say,
I shouldn't do this, it hurts when
I do that, don't do that, right?
And so this is not where the testing magic
is, that's where the testing magic is.